# Ripple Case Study


## Overview and Origin 

According to the company’s webpage, Ripple was founded in 2012. (Source 1) However, that is not when the idea was formed. According to an article from medium.com in 2004, Ryan Fugger started developing a prototype focused on a decentralized credit network benefiting individuals interested in extending credit to friends and family. While Ryan Fugger was working on his project, which be later become RipplEPay.com, Jed McCaleb began working on a digital currency system in 2011 that, instead of mining, would gain consensus for transactions among members. McCaleb hired Chris Larsen and the two met with Ryan Fugger. The three agreed to team up and in 2012 founded OpenCoin, which lead to the development of ripple protocol (RTXP) and the Ripple payment network. In 2013 OpenCoin become known as Ripple Labs, Inc. and later become known as Ripple. According to Forbes Arthur Britto is also considered a co-founder of Ripple.

To date Ripple has received 294 Million dollars in funding. A February 2019 Forbes article shows that Ripple has received 94 Million dollars in funding. A December 2019 article on FinTechFutures.com shows Ripple reporting it has received an additional 200 Million dollars in its latest Series C funding round led by Tretagon and includes participation by SBI Holdings and Route 66 Ventures.

## Business Activities

Ripple looks to allow banks, individuals, companies, and institutions to move money across borders in fast, secure, cost-effective manner. The current process that banks and people use to move money around the world is based on the SWIFT network and can take up to 3-5 days for funds to move, provided all information is verified at every check point and costs 30 dollars or more per transaction. Failure to meet the verification process at any point under the SWIFT network causes delays and could potentially lead to loss of funds.

Ripple’s payment protocol uses an open-source, peer-to-peer decentralized platform. This allows for money to be exchanged between two parties globally. Ripple uses its own cryptocurrency, known as XRP, as the holding currency in the transaction between the two parties. The sending party’s currency is converted to XPR and then XPR is converted into the receiving party’s currency. This process takes 4 seconds to complete and in a much cheaper manner than the existing, traditional methods available.

Ripple is marketing itself to different financial institutions and money transfer services. According to the companies webpage, Ripple has over 300 financial institutions using RippleNet. This includes big names such as American Express, Bank of America, and Union Bank of Switzerland or UBS. Western Union and MoneyGram both announced in 2018 it begin testing the use of Ripple to transfer funds with Western Union using Ripple in pilot test and MoneyGram using Ripple’s xRapid and XPR in its pilot tests. Ripple is constantly looking to add other financial institutions to its growing lists of clients and business partners.

Ripple is currently using Blockchain technology along with its own protocol that is peer-to-peer and open sourced. Ripple uses these technologies in conjunction to allow for quick, cross-border, money transfers and transactions through its different services. Three of its services are known as xCurrent, xRapid, and xVia. xCurrent focuses on incoming payment processing, xRapid focuses on helping move funds between different currencies, and xVia focus on processing outgoing payments and transfers. These programs are disrupting the money transfer market by allowing for cheaper, quicker, and more secure transactions to take place globally.

## Landscape

Ripple falls into the domain of both Blockchain and Cryptocurrency. Though critics of Ripple claim they are not a true Cryptocurrency, claiming it is more of a security as it acts as a bridge in transactions and is not decentralized. Ripple defends its claim that it is a true Cryptocurrency by saying that its Cryptocurrency (XPR) can stand alone even if Ripple itself were to shut down. However, Ripple is not the only Cryptocurrency and Blockchain company out there. Stellar is another Blockchain company striving to leverage its own Cryptocurrency called XLM. Besides Stellar Forbes lists Bitfury, Circle, Coinbase, and Gemini as all being a Cryptocurrency and Blockchain company as well as being in the top 50 FinTech companies across all domains.

The domains of Bitcoin, Cryptocurrency, Digital Assets, and Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technologies earned the title of a megatrend cluster and the FinTech megatrend of the decade according to a December 2019 Forbes article. Ever since Bitcoin launched in 2009, the landscape of currency has evolved and changed drastically with regulatory agencies and central banks struggling to keep up with the ever changing pace and development of these technologies. It is forecasted that this sector will reach the 25 Billion dollar mark by 2025. Even though Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain have been around for more than 10 years, this industry is still so new and ever changing who knows what all of the future innovations will hold. 

Most recently this industry has focused on new digital assets and derivatives as well as exchanges, custody, and settlement infrastructure. China, which currently bans Cryptocurrencies, is even looking to develop Blockchain technology. Blockchain is also leading the finance world in the areas of impact coins, refugee crisis, migrant workers, and financial inclusion. A lot of commercial players in +the area of Blockchain are working on the interoperability between Blockchain and distributed ledger protocols. Blockchain innovations have also allowed for it to be positioned to take off in the areas of green and blue bonds. Ripple is in a good place for allowing itself to be poised to contribute and lead the way as Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies continue to evolve.

## Results

Ripple has disrupted the cross-border, money transfer market so much that it is causing the current system, SWIFT, to begin testing their own Blockchain service. Visa is also ramping up its own response to Ripple by creating its own Blockchain solution. This shows that Ripple is forcing current, more conventional companies to re-think how they are doing business as well as consider what technology they need to stay near the top of their market.

With Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies evolving rapidly over the past few years, it can be difficult to tell which ones will succeed and which ones will fail as well as determining how successful a current Cryptocurrency and Blockchain company really is. In a 2017 MIT Technology Review, Ripple was examined in two main areas, liquidity and removing important nodes to see the effect on the credit network, or more specifically Ripple Wallets. The review found that Ripple scored very well in the area of liquidity and had some vulnerability when removing nodes that cut off people’s access to their Ripple Wallets and thus, their funds. 

Because Blockchain and Cryptocurrency are still relatively new it can be hard to determine if different companies are really being successful beneath the surface. Defining which Cryptocurrency and Blockchain companies fall under which regulatory bodies can be tricky and confusing. Ripple was fined by FinCEN 450,000 dollars for failing to register with them as well as a lack of compliance with anti-money laundering procedures. Because it is difficult to determine which regulatory agency Crypto and Blcokchain companies should fall under, whether that be FinCEN, the SEC, IRS, or some yet to be determined and formed agency, more clarity will be needed from these agencies to determine what makes them successful. The different regulatory agencies and Crypto and Blockchain companies will need to work together to come up with a good solution at defining key metrics to determine success. 

ZDNET offers 19 different metrics to measure Blockchain company success and bitsonline offers 8 different metrics for measuring Cryptocurrency success. ZDNET’s list includes Auditability, Compliance, Data Security, Transparency, and Authentication in its 19 metrics for measuring success while bitsonline’s list includes Node Decentralization, The Number of Daily Crypto Transactions, The Number of Non-Empty Wallets, Daily Trade Volume, and 24-Hour Price Change in its 8 metrics for measuring success. 

Until regulatory agencies and Crypto and Blcokchain companies adopt and agree to a set of industry standards for measuring success it will remain a challenge for investors to determine which ones are truly successful. Ripple’s future, however, looks very bright. They are the third-largest Cryptocurrency on the market, they have lead the way in how different financial institutions move money around the world, and have caused the traditional methods for global money transfer networks to reconsider how they operate.

## Recomendations

While Ripple’s future does look bright as they add new partners and financial institutions to their RippleNet network, they are lacking partners in the realm of mainstream exchange companies such as Robinhood. By partnering with a company like Robinhood, it would allow them to become even more visible to investors. Partnering with a company such as Robinhood would not necessarily require them to use any sort of new technology that they are not already using. They could continue to use Blockchain technology to allow for security as well as incorporate big data to better target investors. By partnering with a company such as Robinhood it would allow Ripple to increase its marketshare and get the word out to even more financial institutions, which could lead to more companies joining there RippleNet network and continue to change the landscape of global money transfers. Another advantage that Ripple could gain by partnering with Robinhood is access to its existing technology, such as big data, that would allow them to target the right investors. Only time will tell if Ripple decides to make such a key move.

### Sources

-l1[Ripple](https://ripple.com/company/)
-l1[Forbes-11 Biggest FinTech Companies in America 2019](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffkauflin/2019/02/04/the-10-biggest-fintech-companies-in-america-2019/#18fea17432b9)
-l1[Forbes-FinTech 50](https://www.forbes.com/fintech/2019/#667f7ed22b4c)
-l1[FinTech Futures-Ripple Raises 200m in Series C Funding](https://www.fintechfutures.com/2019/12/ripple-raises-200m-in-series-c-funding-round/)
-l1[Medium-FinTech Focus on RIPPLE: Blockchain Leader in Remittances](https://medium.com/fintechtris/fintech-focus-on-ripple-blockchain-leader-in-remittances-1f05603011d9)
-l1[MIT Technology Review](https://www.technologyreview.com/2017/06/16/151164/first-large-scale-analysis-of-the-ripple-cryptocurrency-network/)
-l1[ZDNET-19 Useful Metrics for Measuring Blockchain Progress](https://www.zdnet.com/article/19-useful-metrics-for-measuring-blockchain-results/)
-l1[Bitsonline-The 8 Most Important Cryptocurrency Metrics to Look For](https://bitsonline.com/8-important-cryptocurrency-metrics/)
-l1[Forbes-Ten Years Of FinTech Megatrends For The Next Decade](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lawrencewintermeyer/2019/12/26/ten-years-of-fintech-megatrends-for-the-next-decade/#1d2aa79318aa)
